---
title: "R Notebook"
output: html_notebook
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
    preview: true
---

## Data Analytics for Immersive Environments - Grace Reilly

#### Student No. D00262395

### Table of Contents

#### **1. Abstract**

#### **2. Introduction**

-   Topic & Context

-   Rationale & Hypothesis

#### **3. Method**

#### **4. Results**

#### **5. Discussion**

#### **6. References**

#### **1. Abstract**

The aim of this study was to determine which, if any acts as an
effective treatment for PTSD. The study divided 150 patients (M= 75,
F=75) into 3 groups using random sampling dependent on the type of
treatment they would receive; Control (traditional CBT, no VR), Static
(non-animated model content, VR), Animated (animated model content, VR).
Treatment consisted of a 50 minute session weekly with a therapist over
12 weeks. PTSD measurements for all groups were measured using the
observer-rated and self-report mechanisms. Findings concluded that
patients OR and CPSS-SR measurement were significantly decreased post
treatment. Graph 1a shows that the OR and CPSS-SR measurements are very
closely related. Furthermore the report suggests there is no leading
therapy for PTSD.

#### **2.Introduction**

-   Rationale & Hypothesis

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is observed in humans that have
been exposed to a horrifying event, through direct experience or witness
of such event. Symptoms might include vivid flashbacks, nightmares,
intense distress and severe anxiety (Mayo Clinic link). Evidently this
mental health issue can be very distressing for those affected.
Therapies utilised were; Control (traditional Cognitive Behavioural
Therapy (CBT), no Virtual Reality (VR)), Static (non-animated model
content, VR), Animated (animated model content, VR). Traditional CBT
involves the therapist and patient working through current day issues.
They will navigate through the patients thoughts, emotions and
behaviours together (HSE link). The rationale behind this study is to
understand what the most effective treatment is for PTSD in young
adults. The null hypothesis states that no one group had a higher OR
and/or CPSS-SR measurement. The alternative hypothesis states that one
group has a higher OR and/or CPSS-SR measurement.

#### **3.Method**

150 patients (aged 18-25) enrolled in the study was conducted over 12
weeks (1st August 2022 - 23rd of October 2022). The patients (M= 75,
F=75) into 3 equal groups using random sampling dependent on the type of
treatment they would receive; Control (traditional CBT, no VR), Static
(non-animated model content, VR), Animated (animated model content, VR).
The three groups underwent therapy with the same therapists to ensure
that all patients results are comparable. Similarly each patient was
treated for 50 minutes, once a week across the 12 weeks. The study aims
to determine the most effective treatment for PTSD through statistical
analysis such as histograms, standard deviation and the T test. Insert
other methods used -- R note book to evaluate Y. PTSD measurements for
all groups were measured using the observer-rated (therapist score) and
self-report (self-score). These values assess the extremity of PTSD
symptoms in said patient (APA PyscNet). Measurements were taken at the
start and end of the study. It was this data was used for determining
effectiveness of PTSD treatments.
